In this video I will explain the concept of copying variables.
So the idea is that you are working with one variable and you want to make a copy of that variable to
use for some other application, presumably without changing the initial original version of that variable.
Unfortunately, this can be a little tricky for reasons that I will explain in a moment.
So let's begin by just creating a simple two element list.
Nothing super fancy here, just the numbers three comma four.
Okay, so let's say this is like a bigger data set that we have.
And now we want to make a copy of the data set so that we can preserve the original version of the data
set while working with this other copy.
Maybe this copy we need to filter in different ways or transform in different ways.
Okay, so now, uh, this seems fine.
And I can look at the element one.
So the first element or the second element sorry with index one in B is four.
So far so good.
Now it's getting tricky because if I want to change the copy I don't want to change the original variable.
That's literally the reason why I made a copy.
So I don't need to change the original variable.
But let's do something like this.
Let's say b1 equals ten.
Okay.
So what I want to do here is in data set B change this variable to ten or that value to ten.
So that does work.
That changes it.
But also a gets changed.
And that seems really puzzling and wrong.
Right.
Because uh, nowhere in this code cell do I redefine the second value of a, I only redefine the second
value of B, and yet somehow, you know, magic happened.
And variable A also actually changed.
Aged.
Okay, so what is going on here?
What's going on here is that if you just do assignment like this from one variable to another variable,
you are not actually creating a new copy of the variable.
Instead, you're just making a new pointer to exactly the same location on the hard disk.
Okay.
So uh, and I can show that by using.
So there's a function called ID and this is a long string of numbers.
But it is Python's way of identifying a variable or pointing to an association between a variable in
text and the actual bits on the computer that that variable represents.
So now if I look at print id a and print id b, you can see that these two numbers are exactly the same.
And what that tells you is that B and A look like two different variables.
But they only look like two different variables to us.
For Python, they are just two different pointers to exactly the same information.
And that's why when we change one, we automatically change the other because we're not really changing
B we're changing some bits on the computer where B is pointing to, and B points to the same bits that
A points to.
Okay.
So how can we ameliorate this situation?
How can we actually make a separate copy of B such that changing B will not also change a?
There are a few different ways that you can make a copy depending on the data type, the type of variable.
So let me actually show you one easy way.
If you have a list you can just write colon.
And then all this is just listing out all of the it's slicing the list, but it's listing all of the
elements.
Okay.
So now I change actually let me write print A and print B.
Okay so now A remains unchanged whereas B actually is changed.
And the way that I got B and A to be decoupled such that B really is a separate copy of A is just to
slice through A, even though I'm taking all of the elements, I'm taking a full slice.
And then when I run this code, you can see that now these two numbers are different from each other.
So in other words, Python now recognizes that A and B point to two different locations on the hard
drive such that when you change one variable, you're not automatically going to change the other variable.
So that's something you can do with lists.
If you are working with NumPy or PyTorch, you can also add a zero.
So let me introduce you to that.
So I'm going to create a new array.
Let's just say 123.
Pretty simple.
And by the way, if you run this code and you get an error message that says, you know, variable NP
is undefined, then you just need to re import numpy.
In fact, maybe I'll even show you that right now.
Okay, so I ran this code and I didn't get any error messages.
I taught you in the first video of this section how to restart the Python kernel.
So I'm going to restart the session.
I get a warning message.
Uh, including all local variables will be lost.
I'm going to.
Right.
Yes I click on yes.
Okay.
So and you can also see I missed it here.
But up here it this went from a check to saying uh disconnected reconnecting.
And now we get a green check again.
Okay.
So now when I run this code cell, now we get an error message that says NP is not defined.
So when I restarted the kernel, it also cleared out all of the variables.
Also cleared out a it cleared out the function that we created in the previous video.
So no problem.
What you need to do is just re import numpy.
So import numpy as np.
And now this works again re importing is just something you will need to do at the beginning of every
python session.
Okay so we have e and now I have f equals e.
And then I'm going to write print id and print id f.
No surprise these two identifying numbers are exactly the same for the same reason that you know these
were exactly the same.
This is not something specific about lists.
This equality just establishes a different pointer to the same information for every kind of variable.
Okay.
So you can slice I've already shown you that you can also just say plus zero.
So you can add zero.
That does nothing to the numbers but it does change the identifying code.
So you can see here these two numbers differ from each other.
And that means that now f is a separate copy from E.
And I can change the values in F without changing the original values in E okay.
And this method also works in PyTorch.
Uh, I will introduce PyTorch uh, in a later section.
Okay.
And then the last way I want to show to make a copy is using the library copy.
So here I write import copy.
Now with numpy I use an abbreviation like this.
Uh, so you know you can do something like this, but uh, but people generally just import the copy
library as itself.
So, uh, now we can access the functions in the copy library using copy dot.
Okay.
So let's try let's create a new uh, dictionary.
And I'm going to say q equals one and w.
is set to two.
So this is just a little dictionary.
Now if I want to create a copy of D then again this is just going to make a new pointer.
This is not actually a copy.
Now slicing doesn't work for dictionaries.
Adding zero doesn't work for dictionaries.
So how can we make a new fresh copy of this dictionary?
Here we can use the copy library.
So I will write copy dot deep copy.
So the function is deep copy and it's contained inside the copy library.
And then I input the variable that I want to make a copy of.
And that gives me a new variable okay.
And then again print id d and print id copy d.
And here we see that these have different IDs.
Which means we can manipulate copy d without changing the variable d.